In this lecture, we are going to get started with React.
Like I said before, we're not going to be getting into the tools of React.
Diving into these tools can be overwhelming for beginners.
I think the best way to start learning react is to have an easy environment to work in.
In the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to a stack blitz.
If you've never heard of stack lists before, that's fine.
They are a company that provides free development environments in the browser.
We can get started with React without setting up an environment.
It's quick and easy.
Best of all, a preview of our application is available on the right side of the page.
Any time a file is updated, the page will refresh.
Overall, stack blitz is a great tool for testing new libraries and frameworks.
Let's dive into the files that are available.
There are two folders called public and source.
In addition, we have a file in the root directory called package JSON.
Let's open the package file.
Inside this file, we're going to find a list of settings for our project.
The purpose of the package JSON file is to describe our project.
For example, there's a property called Name which stores the name of our project.
Up next, we have the version of property.
It's the current version of our project.
This file is completely configurable in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to a complete list of properties that can be added to a package file.
Feel free to check out this page after finishing this lecture.
Let's head back to our project.
The most important properties are the dependencies and development dependencies.
Properties.
React comes in the form of a package.
Packages are third party libraries maintained by other developers.
We can integrate them into our project by downloading them.
The preferred method of downloading a package is by listing them inside the package.
Dot JSON file stack blitz has been configured to download packages that have been listed in the package
dot JSON file.
The question is where are these packages hosted?
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a site called NP PM and PM is considered
the official site for uploading and downloading packages from other developers.
There are thousands of packages available.
You can download a package for generating a password, creating servers, etc. The Java script community
has one of the best package ecosystems in the world.
Best of all, most packages are completely free.
The React team has uploaded React to the NPM registry.
Let's head back to our file inside the dependencies object packages can be added by listing bear name
as the property name.
The value should be the version number for the package.
You can download the latest version or older version.
In our case, we're working with version 18.
There's another package called React.
Dom React is not a single library.
There are dozens of other packages that can extend the React library.
We'll explore the differences in another lecture.
There's another list of dependencies called dev dependencies.
In some cases, you may download packages to help you with development.
They may not be packages that you would include with your application for production.
You can specify development dependencies by adding them to this object.
Lastly, we are going to ignore these scripts property.
This property is important, but it will not be relevant until the end of this section.
Don't worry, it's not going to impact the way we write code.
Let's move on to the other directories.
There's a directory called Public.
This directory will contain the HTML file that gets loaded on the page.
If you were to open this file, you might be surprised.
The contents of this file do not match the contents of the documents.
Believe it or not, the contents of the page have been generated with React.
More on that later.
The next directory is called Source.
Throughout your career as a developer, you're going to encounter this directory.
In most projects, it's considered standard practice to have a folder called Source for hosting your
application's code.
This way our application code is separate from the configuration code, like the package JSON file.
There are three files called app JS, Index JS and style CSS.
We can safely ignore the app JS and style CSS files.
We'll revisit them in a future lecture.
Let's shift our focus to the index JS file.
This file is responsible for controlling the contents of the document.
To prove it, let's clear out the file.
By removing the original code, the page is completely blank.
So what is going on in that file?
Let's try recreating the file in the following lecture.
By doing so, we won't be able to understand what's going on.